# Oxysaver Research Paper
OxySaver: highly conserving demand oxygen delivery system with increased throughput

## Abstract
Since the beginning of the twentieth century, oxygen has been an essential therapeutic drug. Patients with chronic lung disease and other conditions rely on supplemental oxygen provided by oxygen cylinders for treatment. Because of the sudden increase in oxygen demand caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, combined with a lack of oxygen supply, new methods of oxygen delivery have been investigated as a potential solution. We propose OxySaver, a novel low-cost(∼60$) demand oxygen delivery system that may significantly reduce oxygen consumption. The proposed system consists of a pressure sensor that detects the patient’s demand for oxygen, a normally open solenoid valve that switches the supply ON/OFF on demand, and a processing unit that ensures the supply of oxygen only during the patient’s inhalation. It is simple to install using existing oxygen cylinders and oxygen pipelines in hospitals. The preliminary prototype tests have been promising, with OxySaver able to save up to 67% more oxygen than conventional methods. OxySaver’s pulse setting can reach 18 LPM, as opposed to the 0.2–4 LPM typically found in oxygen concentrators. The system only needs 3.72 W at 50 bpm, which is less than other similar devices. OxySaver in multiplexing mode has the potential to reduce the logistical challenges associated with oxygen refilling and transport. The device is now ready for clinical testing at the bedside. 

(PDF) OxySaver: highly conserving demand oxygen delivery system with increased throughput. Available from: 

